# About the efficiency of a certain cut of the data, about its purity

## Some words regarding the main issue that is worrying me

So there is huge dataset, with a lot of fenomenology on it: noise, events with different cluster sizes, different charges, different angles, etc. This is not so difference in its basis to a large experiment in terms of event definition and morphology.

To interpret these events, and filter out non-physics effects, some cuts are imposed. This cuts might be in charge, or maybe requiring three or four plane triggers, or maybe requiring that the event has 0 offenders (meaning channels that required zeroing), etc. Each particular cut (or gate) will be defined by some purity respect to the original datastream. This purity number is not necesarily good or bad: if the detector is noisy, a good cut will have low purity, but a good signal-to-noise selection. So, **purity** is a first concern.

My telescope is made of four planes. We cannot access a calibration source to get the total efficiency of detection respect the calibration source, so we have to figure out a way to correct the data from changes in the efficency of the detector, which are natural to changes in pressure, temperature, etc. The method I try to use to get a proxy of the real efficiency of the plane is basically taking the relations between three planes and four planes, such that, for example for the plane 2 (being the order 1,2,3,4) the calculated efficiency would be 

$\mathrm{eff}_{\mathrm{2}} = \frac{\mathrm{detected}}{\mathrm{passed}} = \frac{1234}{134 + 1234}$

And so on.

So the main issue is that I can calculate the efficiency for the planes (using the three plane-method) and that may be a good proxy for the efficiency of the telescope, but if I try to correct that rate using that efficiency, this will give, in the best case, the corrected rate for that particular cut on the data, but a correction using that calculated efficiency for the cut on the data will simply NOT give the original rate, or the incoming rate into the detector.

This is a major issue to take into account. This means that, if I have the aspiration to recover the original flux, no efficiency correction will simply give the real incoming data rate. I can only get proxies to it. It's like I need the efficiency of the detector, but also some kind of measure of the real purity of the data. I don't know how they do at LHC, for example, to deal with this.

So I think a reasonable idea would be to try to see which cuts I can explain well with the simulated data, hence, which cuts are free of noise and possible to understand, and try to apply the same cut to real data and to simulated data, and then using the simulated data original info, solve the inverse problem. I don't know what else I can do.