# 2026-02-10
## New notebook formatting and up to date
---

### Welcome to the equivalent to the Notebook VI of the miniTRASGO
This is the first logging after I left the Google Docs method. It had its advantages, but since mostly I am working with myself, for me it's key to have this loggin easy, accesible, both local and cloud and also, and most importantly, in contact with AI agents (Codex or Claude).

### Past and next steps
So recently I have been developing a simulation tool that is accompanied by an inference dictionary to help analyze the data. Currently I am in the last steps of the software validation and in the first steps of the physics validation, let's say.

Some thoughts:

1. It seems that at a certain point I will have to make a GÈANT, at least once, to check what is the behaviour of the detector with respect to the physics of the muons and electrons. I don't know how much they could really influence, and that's precisely the point of the GÈANT, to trace the limits of the straight line assumption.
2. The next step is, then, to correct real data, for a short range, for example the first week of December, for example the HV scan we are currently working on, and then show that the method works.
3. Once the short time correction has been done, the long scale data can be published, accompanied maybe by a pressure and temperature correction to obtain data independent of the atmosphere. The long scale data, along with the method to obtain it (and uncertainties) should be a super good goal for publication. Later I could make a proper directional analysis / combined with neutron solar effect study, etc.
4. I have to find a way to join together points in the metadata csv to accumulate statistics.
5. I have to solve the fact that the real data analysis filters a lot of events in the task 1 that the simulation data has not.
6. Maybe I could take an external detector to calculate with other method the flux.
7. I HAVE TO APPLY THE INFERENCE DICTIONARY TO DATA, THAT'S THE MAIN PRIORITY.